History Signs and Symptoms Differential • Age • Severity (pain scale) • Musculoskeletal • Location, duration • Quality • Visceral (abdominal) • Severity (1-10) • Radiation • Cardiac • Past medical history • Relation to movement, • Pleural, respiratory • Pregnancy status respiration • Neurogenic • Drug allergies and medications • Increased with palpation of • Renal (colic) area Pearls • Recommended exam: Respiratory Status, Mental Status, Area of pain, Neuro. • Pain severity (1-10) is to be recorded before and after medication administration and patient hand off. • Monitor BP and respirations closely as sedative and pain control agents may cause hypotension and or respiratory depression. • Consider patient’s age, weight, clinical condition, use of drugs/alcohol, exposure to opiates when determining initial opiate dosing. Weight based dosing may provide a standard means of dosing calculation but it does not predict response. Consider starting at a lower initial dose and titrating to effect is recommended. Patients may not exceed listed maximum dose without Medical Control orders. • Exercise caution when administering opiates and benzodiazepines; this combination results in deeper anesthesia with significant risk of respiratory compromise. • Burn patients may require more aggressive dosing. Consider early Medical Control for additional orders. • Consider fentanyl as the primary opioid medication for pediatric traumatic pain. Pediatric Oral Acetaminophen Dosing For Children 3 months of age and older QI Metrics Acetaminophen 160 mg/ 5 ml • Vital signs with O sats documented. Weight in kg ml of Acetaminophen 2 • Pain scale documented before and after • 5 kg 2 ml each intervention. • 7.5 kg 3.5 ml • Repeat vital signs after each • 10 kg 4.5 ml intervention. • 12.5 kg 5 ml • If considering repeat administration of • 15 kg 7 ml pain medications, nasal cannula • 17.5 kg 8 ml capnography must be utilized. • 20 kg 9 ml • 22.5 kg and greater 10 ml Pediatric Pain Management (Revised and MAB approved 6/4/2025) 101