Transport Destinations 1. Medically stable patients should be transported to their hospital of choice if the destination is not significantly beyond the primary response area of the transporting agency. If the patient does not have a preference, the patient should be transported to the nearest appropriate facility. 2. Patients sustaining traumatic injuries shall be transported in accordance with the Trauma Field Triage Criteria Protocol. 3. Patients sustaining burn injuries shall be transported in accordance with the Burns Protocol. 4. Pediatric patients (<18 years of age for transport purposes ONLY) shall be transported in accordance with the Pediatric Destination Protocol. 5. Patients with evidence of an acute cerebrovascular accident shall be transported in accordance with the Stroke Protocol. 6. Sexual assault victims shall be transported as follows: A. Victims <13 years of age shall be transported to Sunrise Hospital & Medical Center. B. Victims 13 years of age and up to 18 years of age shall be transported to either Sunrise Hospital & Medical Center or University Medical Center. C. Victims 18 years of age and older shall be transported to University Medical Center. D. For sexual assault victims outside of a 50-mile radius from the above facilities, the licensee providing emergency medical care shall transport the patient to the nearest appropriate facility. 7. All medical patients in cardiac arrest or in whom the ability to adequately ventilate cannot be established should be transported to the closest facility. 8. If a hospital declares an Internal Disaster, that facility is to be bypassed for ALL patients except patients in cardiac arrest, or in whom the ability to adequately ventilate has not been established. 9. For patients outside of a 50 mile radius from protocol designated transport destinations, the licensee providing emergency medical care shall transport the patient to the nearest appropriate facility. Remote Outpatient Emergency Department Alternate Destination Criteria 1. Patients who require a medical or psychiatric evaluation and do not have evidence of any potentially life-threatening illness or injury at the time of transport may be transported to a remote outpatient emergency department if; 2. The patient has normal vital signs, unless accepted by the remote outpatient emergency department, telemetry contact is made, and; 3. The patient does not meet any of the following exclusions criteria: A. Violent or uncooperative patients B. Obstetric patients > 20 weeks gestation C. Any patient in need of time-critical intervention that can be provided only at a hospital-based emergency department. For example, but not limited to STEMI, Stroke, or ACS. D. Any condition covered by another destination directive: Normal Vital Signs: Trauma Field Triage Criteria Heart Rate 60-100 Stroke Protocol Respiratory Rate 10-20 Burns Protocol Systolic BP 100-180 Pediatric Destination Protocol Diastolic BP 60-110 Sexual Assault Victims Room air pulse oximetry >94% Cardiac Arrest Alert and oriented X4 4. Alternate transportation and destination decisions should be consistent with medical necessity and with consideration for patient preference when the patient’s condition allows. Transport Destinations (Revised and MAB approved 08/03/2022) 129