Patient Restraint LEVEL: EMT/AEMT/PARAMEDIC Indications: A. Patient exhibiting behaviors or actions that may pose a danger to the patient or others. B. Restraints MAY be indicated for patients who meet any of the following criteria: 1. A patient who is significantly impaired (e.g. intoxication, medical illness, injury, psychiatric condition, dementia, etc) and lacks decision-making capacity regarding his or her own care. 2. A patient who exhibits violent, combative, or uncooperative behavior who does not respond to verbal de-escalation and such behavior poses a danger to themselves or others either directly or by interfering with emergency treatment. 3. A patient who is suicidal, homicidal, or on a mental health hold and who exhibits behaviors or actions that may pose a danger to themselves or others. C. Restraints should only be used when less restrictive techniques are unsuccessful, impractical, or likely to endanger the patient or others. Contraindications: None Precautions: • Under no circumstances are patients to be restrained in the prone position. • Patients may not be restrained with their arms behind their backs or in an ankle-to-wrist (hog-tied) manner, or in any other position which impairs their airway or breathing. • Only reasonable force is allowable, i.e. the minimum amount of force necessary to control the patient and prevent harm to the patient and others. Try alternative methods first (e.g. verbal de-escalation). • Restraints shall be used only when necessary to prevent a patient from injuring themselves or others, including EMS personnel, and only if safe treatment and transportation of the patient cannot be accomplished without restraints. • Any attempt to restrain a patient involves risk to the patient and the EMS clinician. Efforts to restrain a patient should only be done with adequate assistance present. • Handcuffs are not appropriate medical restraints and should only be placed by law enforcement personnel. If handcuffs have been placed by law enforcement, a law enforcement officer must accompany the patient to the hospital in the transporting EMS vehicle. • Paramedics only – Consider pharmacologic sedation, if indicated. Refer to Behavioral Emergencies protocol. Patient Restraint 147