Protocol Key: Caution / Warning / Alert Pediatric Treatment Consideration (for patients les than 12 years of age) Telemetry Contact Required Specific Protocol EMT Licensed Atendant and above may perform these steps AEMT Licensed Atendant and above may perform these steps Paramedic Licensed Atendant Definition of a patient: A patient is any individual that mets at least one of the folowing criteria: 1) A person who has a complaint or mechanism sugestive of potential ilnes or injury; 2) A person who has obvious evidence of ilnes or injury; or 3) A person identified by an informed 2nd or 3rd party caler as requiring evaluation for potential ilnes or injury. Pediatric patient considerations: For patients <18 years old, use the Pediatric Patient Destination protocol. Pediatric treatment protocols are to be used on children who have not yet experienced puberty. Signs of puberty include chest or underarm hair on males, and any breast development in females. These protocols have ben developed specificaly for the Clark County EMS System and represent consensus among al of the Clark County EMS agency medical directors and the District Health Oficer. The protocols demonstrate a comitment to a consistent aproach to quality patient care. From time to time, protocols may be aded or revised by the District Health Oficer upon recomendation by the Medical Advisory Board (MAB). Aditional recomendations are welcome and apreciated at any time. They may be submited to the OEMSTS for consideration and referal to the Medical Advisory Board. Southern Nevada Health District Ofice of Emergency Medical Services & Trauma System P.O. Box 3902 Las Vegas, Nevada 89127 Physical adres: 280 S Decatur Blvd Las Vegas, NV 89152 Ofice Hours: Mon-Thur 8:0 am to 4:30 pm Questions may also be telephoned to EMS staf at (702) 759-1050, or visit our website at htp:/ww.southernevadahealthdistrict.org/ems/index.php. 6 E A P Protocol Key: Caution / Warning / Alert Pediatric Treatment Consideration (for patients les than 12 years of age) Telemetry Contact Required Specific Protocol EMT Licensed Atendant and above may perform these steps AEMT Licensed Atendant and above may perform these steps Paramedic Licensed Atendant Definition of a patient: A patient is any individual that mets at least one of the folowing criteria: 1) A person who has a complaint or mechanism sugestive of potential ilnes or injury; 2) A person who has obvious evidence of ilnes or injury; or 3) A person identified by an informed 2nd or 3rd party caler as requiring evaluation for potential ilnes or injury. Pediatric patient considerations: For patients <18 years old, use the Pediatric Patient Destination protocol. Pediatric treatment protocols are to be used on children who have not yet experienced puberty. Signs of puberty include chest or underarm hair on males, and any breast development in females. These protocols have ben developed specificaly for the Clark County EMS System and represent consensus among al of the Clark County EMS agency medical directors and the District Health Oficer. The protocols demonstrate a comitment to a consistent aproach to quality patient care. From time to time, protocols may be aded or revised by the District Health Oficer upon recomendation by the Medical Advisory Board (MAB). Aditional recomendations are welcome and apreciated at any time. They may be submited to the OEMSTS for consideration and referal to the Medical Advisory Board. Southern Nevada Health District Ofice of Emergency Medical Services & Trauma System P.O. Box 3902 Las Vegas, Nevada 89127 Physical adres: 280 S Decatur Blvd Las Vegas, NV 89152 Ofice Hours: Mon-Thur 8:0 am to 4:30 pm Questions may also be telephoned to EMS staf at (702) 759-1050, or visit our website at htp:/ww.southernevadahealthdistrict.org/ems/index.php. 6 E A P