History Signs and Symptoms Differential • Age (Common in elderly and very • Hyper or hypothermia • Cardiogenic Shock young) • Rash and/or excessive bruising • Hypovolemic Shock • Presence and duration of fever • Chills • Dehydration • Previously documented infection • Myalgia • Hyperthyroidism or illness (UTI, Pneumonia, • Markedly decreased urine output • Medication/drug interaction meningitis, encephalitis, cellulitis, • Altered mentation • Non-septic infection abscesses, etc) • Delayed capillary refill • Allergic reaction/anaphylaxis • Recent surgery or invasive • Elevated blood glucose (unless • Toxicological emergency procedure diabetic) • Any recent hospitalization • Immunocompromised (transplant, HIV, diabetes, cancer) • Bedridden or immobile patients • Prosthetic or indwelling devices • Immunization status • Open wounds, even minor ones Pearls • Early recognition of sepsis allows for attentive care and early administration of antibiotics. • Aggressive IV fluid therapy is the most important prehospital treatment for sepsis. Suspected septic patients should receive repeated fluid boluses (to a max total of 2 liters) while being checked frequently for signs of pulmonary edema, especially those patients with known history of CHF or ESRD on dialysis. STOP fluid resuscitation in the setting of pulmonary edema. • Time IV fluid bolus was initiated and total amount given is to be recorded and reported to hospital staff at patient hand off. • Septic patients are especially susceptible to traumatic lung injury and ARDS. If artificial ventilation is necessary, avoid ventilating with excessive tidal volumes. If NIPPV is utilized, airway pressure should be limited to 5 cm H2O. • Attempt to identify source of infection (skin, respiratory, etc.) and relay previous treatments and related history to the ED physician and nursing staff. • Elevated serum lactate levels are a useful marker of hypoperfusion in sepsis and often become elevated prior to the onset of hypotension. ETCO2 levels are inversely proportional to serum lactate levels. • Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is an ominous, late stage manifestation of sepsis characterized by frank, extensive bruising, bleeding from multiple sites, and finally tissue death. • Conditions such as Crohn’s, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune disorders are now being treated with medications that impair the immune system. These patients need to be considered as immunocompromised. • Hypovolemia or distributive shock should be addressed with a fluid bolus prior to the administration of push-dose pressors. • While there are no absolute contraindications to epinephrine, it should be used with caution in elderly patients, patients with known cardiovascular disease, or significant tachycardia or hypertension, and should be administered only when the patient’s signs and symptoms are severe. QI Metrics • Vital signs to include blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, SpO2, and ETCO2 documented throughout transport. • Vital signs before, during, and after fluid administration. • Documentation of the time IV fluid was started and total amount given. Sepsis (revised and MAB approved 6/1/2022) 56