Documentation 1. A Patient Care Record (PCR) will be completed for each incident/patient encounter, in accordance with current EMS Regulations. A patient is any individual that, upon contact with an EMS system, has any of the following: A. A complaint or mechanism suggestive of potential illness or injury. B. Obvious evidence of illness or injury. C. An individual or informed 2nd/3rd party caller requests evaluation for potential illness or injury. 2. PCRs shall include no less than the following information: A. Patient’s name, address, age, and sex; B. Date and location of call; C. Time of dispatch, arrival at scene, departure from scene, and arrival at hospital; D. Mechanism of injury—chief complaint; E. Medication(s) used by patient and allergies; F. Pertinent patient history, including current medication(s) and allergies; G. Signs and symptoms identified during patient assessment, and changes; H. Care and treatment given at scene and during transport; I. Patient destination; J. Name of attendant(s); K. If care is provided as authorized by protocol; L. File Attachments: The associated monitor file must be uploaded and attached to the PCR if the monitor was used for any of the following purposes: 1) Assessing and/or monitoring the cardiac rhythm; 2) Obtaining a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) 3) Providing electrical therapy; cardioversion, defibrillation, and/or pacing 4) Monitoring End-Tidal Carbon Dioxide (ETCO2) levels and/or waveform of an intubated patient M. In cases of trauma, the patient’s trauma score, TFTC status, and any injury mitigation devices shall be documented, i.e. car seats, seat belts, air bags, helmets, etc.; N. At least one full set of vital signs; 1) Blood pressure 2) Heart rate 3) Respiratory rate 4) Temperature as indicated 5) Oxygen saturation 6) Reassessment after interventions, i.e. pain score after medications; 7) Any complications or other relevant information. 3. Any agency that provides patient care activities prior to the arrival of the transporting agency shall provide the transporting agency with, at a minimum, a verbal report reflecting those activities. This verbal report must be documented in the transporting agency’s PCR. Documentation 121