History Signs and Symptoms Differential • Type of exposure (heat, gas, chemical) • Burns, pain, swelling • Superficial (1st degree) – red and painful • Inhalational injury • Dizziness • Partial Thickness (2nd degree) – blistering • Time of injury • Loss of consciousness • Full Thickness (3rd degree) – painless/charred • Past medical history & medications • Hypotension/shock or leathery skin • Other trauma • Airway compromise/distress • Thermal • Loss of consciousness • Wheezing • Chemical • Tetanus/immunization status • Singed facial or nasal hair • Electrical • Hoarseness or voice changes • Radiation • Lightning Pearls • Burn patients are trauma patients; evaluate for multisystem trauma. • Assure whatever has caused the burn, is no longer contacting the injury. (Stop the burning process!) • Recommended Exam: Mental Status, HEENT, Neck, Heart, Lungs, Abdomen, Extremities, Back, Neuro. • Consider early intubation with patients experiencing significant inhalation injuries. • Potential CO exposure should be treated with 100% oxygen. (For patients in which the primary event is CO inhalation, transport to a hospital equipped with a hyperbaric chamber is indicated [when reasonably accessible].) • Circumferential burns to extremities are dangerous due to potential vascular compromise secondary to soft tissue swelling. Elevate extremity. • Burn patients are prone to hypothermia - never apply ice or cool burns; must maintain normal body temperature. • Consider ETCO2 monitoring. • Evaluate the possibility of child abuse with children and burn injuries Early Intubation Indications • Signs of Airway Obstruction • Burns in Mouth • Hoarseness, Stridor, Dyphagia • Total BSA ≥ 40% Patients meeting the following Criteria shall be transported • Extensive Deep Facial Burns • Altered Mentation to the closest appropriate Burn Care Center: • Signs of Respiratory Compromise • Significant Risk of Edema -Accessory Muscle Use 1. Second degree burns >10% body surface area (BSA). -Inability to Clear Secretions 2. Any Third degree burns. -Poor Oxygenation 3. Burns that involve the face, hands, feet, genitalia, perineum, or major joints. 4. Electrical burns including lightning injury. 5. Chemical burns. Fluid Resuscitation 6. Circumferential burns. • 13 years and above 500 ml NS or LR bolus • 6-12 years 250 ml NS or LR bolus 7. Inhalation burns. • 5 years or less 125 ml NS or LR bolus 8. Burn injury with concomitant trauma • Contact Burn Center Medical Direction for additional boluses or drip rates or if it is a prolonged transport. Pearls (Chemical) Pearls (Electrical) • Certainly 0.9% NaCl Sol’n or Sterile Water is preferred; • Do not contact the patient until you are certain the source of the electric shock has been disconnected. however if it is not readily available, do not delay; use tap • Attempt to locate contact points, (entry wound where the AC source contacted the water for flushing the affected area or other immediate water patient; an exit at the ground point); both sites will generally be full thickness. sources. Flush the area as soon as possible with the cleanest, • Cardiac monitor; anticipate ventricular or atrial irregularity to include V-Tach, V-Fib, readily available water or saline solution using copious heart blocks, etc. amounts of fluids. • Attempt to identify the nature of the electrical source (AC vs DC), the amount of voltage and the amperage the patient may have been exposed to during the electrical shock. Pediatric Burns (Revised and MAB approved 4/7/2021) 87