Prehospital Death Determination For all emergency scenes where patient needs exceed available EMS resources, initial assessment and treatment shall be in accordance with the START/SMART triage methodology. 1. Patients who appear to have expired will not be resuscitated or transported by Clark County EMS personnel if any of the following obvious signs of death are present: If there are any extenuating circumstances A. Body decomposition regarding access to patient, contact medical B. Decapitation control. C. Transection of thorax (hemicorpectomy) D. Incineration E. For other traumatic injuries suspected to be incompatible with life, medical control must be contacted for medical direction. OR if ALL (5) presumptive signs of death AND AT LEAST one (1) conclusive sign of death are identified. The (5) presumptive signs of death Conclusive signs of death include: that MUST be present are: 1) Dependent lividity 1) Unresponsiveness 2) Rigor mortis 2) Apnea 3) Pulselessness 4) Fixed, dilated pupils 5) For Non-Traumatic Arrests, Asystole in at least 2 (two) leads or a “No Shock Advised” prompt from an AED If any of the findings are different than those described above, clinical death is not confirmed, and resuscitative measures should be immediately initiated or continued. 2. Once it has been determined that the patient has expired and resuscitation will not be attempted: A) Immediately notify the appropriate authority; B) DO NOT leave a body unattended. You may be excused once a responsible person (i.e. Coroner’s investigator, police, security, or family member) is present; C) DO NOT remove any property from the body or the scene for any purpose; D) NEVER transport/move a body without permission from the Coroner’s office except for assessment or its protection. If the body is in the public view and cannot be isolated, screened, or blocked from view, and is creating an unsafe situation with citizens/family, the body can be covered with a clean, STERILE BURN SHEET obtained from the EMS vehicle. Prehospital Death Determination (Revised and MAB approved 4/6/2022) 125