History Signs and Symptoms Differential • Due date • Spasmodic pain • Abnormal presentation (breech, limb) • Time contractions started/ • Vaginal discharge or bleeding • Prolapsed cord duration/frequency • Crowning or urge to push • Placenta previa • Rupture of membranes • Meconium • Abruptio placenta (meconium) • Time and amount of any vaginal bleeding • Sensation of fetal movement • Prenatal care • Past medical and delivery history • Medications • Gravida/Para Status • High risk pregnancy QI Metrics • Document all times (delivery, contraction, duration, frequency). • Record APGAR at one and five minutes after birth. • If transport of mother and infant together is not possible, documentation why Special Considerations • Any neonate with spontaneous breathing or movement deserves a trial of life and resuscitation. • Neonates with an estimated gestation >23 weeks by date or appearance and no obvious signs of death should have resuscitation initiated. • Preferred site for pulse oximetry monitoring is right hand for pre-ductal readings. • Clamp and cut the umbilical cord immediately when resuscitation is indicated. • If positive pressure ventilation (PPV) is required initially use room air >32 weeks, titrate up to 10 LPM if younger. • To help reduce risk of barotrauma: PEEP 5 cm H2O, PIP 20-25 cm H2O • For cases involving impending delivery, obstetrical emergencies, or prehospital delivery requiring neonatal resuscitation, EMS shall provide EARLY telemetry notification to the ED of an L&D capable facility, give a brief report, ETA, and confirm that the Emergency Department is the intended destination. • Neonates estimated <32 weeks should have their bodies protected with a polyethylene or mylar wrap/bag to retain heat. Resuscitation can be done with this in place. Minimize heat loss and turn up ambient heat while transporting. • Consider withholding resuscitation and providing comfort care for infants without signs of life AND suspected to be <23 weeks gestation based on the following criteria: size less than 12 inches long and/or estimated weight < 400 g; no lip/mouth formation or mouth sealed; webbed fingers/toes; underdeveloped external genitalia SpO2 Goals Based on Minutes of Life Neonatal Resuscitation (revised and approved by MAB 09/03/2025) 97