History Signs and Symptoms Differential • Situational crisis • Anxiety, agitation, confusion • AMS differential • Psychiatric illness/medications • Affect change, hallucinations • Alcohol intoxication • Injury to self or threats to others • Delusional thoughts, bizarre • Toxin/substance abuse • Medic Alert tag behavior • Medication effect or overdose • Substance abuse/overdose • Combative, violent • Withdrawal syndromes • Diabetes • Expression of suicidal/ • Depression homicidal thoughts • Bipolar • Schizophrenia • Anxiety disorder Pearls • Pharmacological sedation is a medical procedure that results from a medical assessment. Sedation is never to be utilized to control behavior for the purpose of law enforcement initiatives or assistance. • Law enforcement assistance should be requested on all calls involving potentially violent patients. • Under no circumstances are patients to be transported restrained in the prone position. • Patients may not be transported with their arms restrained behind their back or in an ankle-to-wrist (hog-tied) manner. • The clinician should be ready to resuscitate the patient in case of inadvertent changes in respiratory or hemodynamic status. Patients should be continuously monitored with all available adjuncts when possible, including HR, ECG, RR, SpO2, BP, ETCO2, perfusion state, mental state. • Physical restraints, including gurney straps, should never restrict chest wall movement. • Patients expressing suicidal or homicidal ideation or who are otherwise a danger to themselves or others may not refuse transport. Contact law enforcement if necessary to initiate legal hold. • EMS providers are not to remove taser darts unless there is a need to do so to administer medical care. Dart removal is part of the education to use the device and is the responsibility of the person or agency who deploys the device. Dystonic Reaction • Condition causing involuntary muscle movements or spasms typically of the face, neck and upper extremities. • Typically an adverse reaction to drugs such as Haloperidol (may occur with administration). • When recognized, administer Diphenhydramine 50 mg IM/IV/IO. S.A.F.E.R. • Stabilize the situation by containing and lowering the stimuli. • Assess and acknowledge the crisis. • Facilitate the identification and activation of resources (chaplain, family, friends or police). • Encourage patient to use resources and take actions in his/her best interest. • Recovery or referral – leave patient in care of responsible person or professional, or transport to appropriate facility. Improved Montgomery County Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (IMC-RASS) Behavioral Emergency (Revised and approved by MAB 04/03/2024) 22