History Signs and Symptoms Differential • Age • Severity (pain scale) • Musculoskeletal • Location, duration • Quality • Visceral (abdominal) • Severity (1-10) • Radiation • Cardiac • Past medical history • Relation to movement, • Pleural, respiratory • Pregnancy status respiration • Neurogenic • Drug allergies and medications • Increased with palpation of • Renal (colic) area Pearls • Recommended exam: Respiratory Status, Mental Status, Area of pain, Neuro. • Pain severity (1-10) is to be recorded before and after medication administration and patient hand off. • Monitor BP and respirations closely as sedative and pain control agents may cause hypotension and/or respiratory depression. • Consider patient’s age, weight, clinical condition, use of drugs/alcohol, exposure to opiates when determining initial opiate dosing. Weight based dosing may provide a standard means of dosing calculation, but it does not predict response. Consider starting at a lower initial dose and titrating to effect is recommended. Patients may not exceed listed maximum dose without Medical Control orders. • Exercise care when administering opiates and benzodiazepines; this combination results in deeper anesthesia with significant risk of respiratory compromise. • Burn patients may require more aggressive dosing. Consider early Medical Control for additional doses. • Acetaminophen is not to be used as the primary pain management medication for Chest Pain/Suspected ACS or STEMI patients. • Acetaminophen should be considered the primary treatment for severe pain for patients that do not wish to receive narcotic analgesia. • Consider fentanyl as the preferred opioid agent for traumatic pain. • QI Metrics • Vital signs with O sats recorded. 2 • Pain scale documented before and after intervention. • Vital signs repeated after intervention. • If considering repeat administration of pain medications, nasal cannula capnography must be utilized. Pain Management (Revised and approved by MAB 12/4/2024) 48