Always weigh the risks and benefits of endotracheal intubation in the field against transport. All prehospital endotracheal intubations are considered high risk. If ventilation/oxygenation is adequate, transport may be the best option. The most important airway device and the most difficult to use correctly and effectively is the Bag Valve Mask (not the laryngoscope). Few prehospital airway emergencies cannot be temporized or managed with proper BVM techniques. DIFFICULT AIRWAY ASSESSMENT: Difficult BVM Ventilation-MOANS: Difficult Mask seal due to facial hair, anatomy, blood or secretions/trauma; Obese or late pregnancy; Age >55; No teeth (roll gauze and place between gums and cheeks to improve seal); Stiff or increased airway pressures (asthma, COPD, obese, pregnant). Difficult Laryngoscopy-LEMON: Look externally for anatomical distortions (small mandible, short neck, large tongue); Evaluate 3-3-2 Rule (Mouth open should accommodate 3 patient fingers, mandible to neck junction should accommodate 3 patient fingers, chin-neck junction to thyroid prominence should accommodate 2 patient fingers); Mallampati (difficult to assess in the field); Obstruction / Obese or late pregnancy; Neck mobility. Difficult Extraglottic Device Placement-RODS: Restricted mouth opening; Obstruction / Obese or late pregnancy; Distorted or disrupted airway; Stiff or increased airway pressures (asthma, COPD, obese, pregnant). Nasotracheal intubation: Orotracheal intubation is the preferred choice. Procedure requires patient to have spontaneous breathing. Contraindicated in anatomically disrupted or distorted airways, increased intracranial pressure, severe facial trauma, basal skull fracture, head injury. Pearls • Consider preoxygenation/lung denitrogenation with a non-rebreather, a nasal cannula at 15 LPM, or NIPPV prior to intubation (as patient condition allows). • Severe hypotension (SBP<90) should be addressed with IV fluids and/or pressors (as appropriate) prior to intubation in order to reduce the likelihood of post-intubation cardiovascular decline. • Capnometry (Color) or capnography is mandatory with all methods of intubation. Document results. • Continuous capnography (ETCO2) is mandatory for the monitoring of all patients with an ET tube. • If an effective airway is being maintained by BVM and/or basic airway adjuncts (e.g. nasopharyngeal airway) with continuous pulse oximetry values of ≥90% or values expected based on pathophysiologic condition with otherwise reassuring vital signs (e.g. pulse oximetry of 85% with otherwise normal vitals in a post-drowning patient), it is acceptable to continue with basic airway measures instead of using an extraglottic airway device or intubation. Consider NIPPV as indicated by protocol and patient condition. • For the purposes of this protocol, a secure airway is achieved when the patient is receiving appropriate oxygenation and ventilation. • An intubation attempt is defined as passing the laryngoscope blade or endotracheal tube past the teeth or inserted into the nasal passage. • An appropriate ventilatory rate is one that maintains an ETCO2 of 35 - 45. Avoid hyperventilation. • Paramedics should use an extraglottic airway device if oral-tracheal intubation is unsuccessful. • Maintain C-spine stabilization for patients with suspected spinal injury. • Gastric tube placement should be considered in all intubated patients, if time allows. • It is important to secure the endotracheal tube well. Ventilation Management(revised and approved by MAB 04/05/2023) 70