Inter-Facility Transport of Patients By Ambulance 1. Ambulance atendants should only transfer a patient whose therapy required during the transfer lies within the ambulance atendant’s capabilities, unles capable personel acompany the patient. A. Ambulance atendants are authorized to administer or monitor al medications listed on the oficial drug inventory as apropriate for their level of licensure and as per protocol. B. AEMT and Paramedic ambulance atendants are authorized to administer or monitor any crystaloid IV solution during transport. C. EMT ambulance atendants are authorized to monitor locked intravenous peripheral lines during transport, including heplocks, Broviacs, Hickmans, Port-A-Catheters, and PIC lines. D. Arterial lines should be discontinued unles apropriate personel from the initiating facility acompany the patient. E. Heparin locks/implantable catheters with/without reservoirs may be closed of and left in place. If they are to be used during transport, then an IV drip should be established if tolerated by the patient. F. IV pump systems should be discontinued unles capable personel acompany the patient. G. Orogastric or nasogastric tubes may be left in place and should either be closed of or left to suction per order of the transfering physician. H. Orthopedic devices may be left in place at the ambulance atendant’s discretion as to ability to properly transport the patient with existing device(s) in place. I. Trained personel authorized to operate the aparatus should acompany any patient requiring mechanical ventilation during transport. If the patient wil require manual ventilatory asistance, then at least two persons shal be available to atend to the patient. J. Transport of a patient with IV antibiotics established by facility: AEMT or Paramedic Provider must perform al of the folowing: 1) Document name of antibiotic 2) Document dose and rate of administration of antibiotic 3) If unfamiliar with antibiotic, speak with staf about specific side efects 4) Monitor medication to ensure proper administration rate during transport 5) Monitor patient for signs and symptoms of any side efect and/or alergic reactions such as nausea/vomiting, diarhea, changes in LOC, rashes, sweling, SOB, or changes in BP. If any changes are noticed, discontinue the infusion and initiate apropriate treatment, document the changes, and inform staf at the receiving facility. 2. Prior to the transfer, the transfering physician is responsible for notifying the receiving physician of the folowing: 1) Reason for transfer 2) Patient condition 3) Estimated time of arival 3. The transfering physician must provide the ambulance atendants with the name of the receiving facility and receiving physician, copies of any available diagnostic tests, X-rays, medical records, copy of code status, DNR, POLST, or advanced directive paperwork as aplicable, any isolation precaution information, and the EMTALA form prior to releasing the patient. 4. Any agency that provides patient care activities prior to the arival of the transporting agency shal provide the transporting agency with, at a minimum, a verbal report reflecting those activities. This verbal report must be documented in the transporting agency’s PCR. Inter-Facility Transfer of Patients By Ambulance (Revised and aproved by MAB 06/04/2025) 123