Patient Restraint (cont.) Key Procedural Considerations: • Treat the patient with respect. Attempts to verbally reassure or calm the patient should be done prior to the use of restraints. To the extent possible, explain what is being done and why. • Acceptable restraints are “hard-type” restraints made of padded leather material or “soft-type” restraints made of padded soft cloth or Velcro and which are manufactured for the purpose of restraint. Gauze (e.g. kerlix), tape, or hard plastic ties should not be used. • Any restraint device used must allow for rapid removal if necessary for management of the patient’s medical condition, including airway, breathing, or circulation. • Restraints should be secured to the frame of the gurney. Avoid securing restraints to moveable parts such as rails, levers, etc. • Apply restraints to the extent necessary to allow treatment of, and prevent injury to, the patient. Under- restraint may place both patient and clinician at greater risk. Restraints may be applied to all four extremities, or both upper extremities, or to one upper and one lower extremity. • Patients shall be restrained in the supine position. • The patient’s upper extremities should be restrained at the wrist, either at the patient’s sides or with one arm above the patient’s head and the other to the side. • The patient’s lower extremities should be restrained at the ankles in the extended and uncrossed position. • If necessary, straps may be placed across the patient’s pelvis and/or legs. • Gurney seatbelts/straps may be used as designed, but must not restrict breathing/chest movement. Additional straps may not be placed on the patient’s neck, chest, or abdomen, and patient should not be sandwiched by any device. • After application of restraints, check all restrained limbs for circulation as soon as possible after application, and then at least every 15 minutes. During the time that a patient is in restraints, continuous attention to the patient’s airway, circulation, and vital signs is mandatory. Apply ECG, SpO2 and ETCO2 monitors if available. • The restrained patient must be under constant observation by a licensed EMS clinician at all times and may not be left unattended. • Consider de-escalation of restraints if appropriate in the judgment of the EMS clinician. QI Metrics: Whenever restraints have been applied in the field, EMS Personnel should document the following in the patient care report (PCR): • The reason restraints were needed, including previous attempts to control patient prior to restraint use. • The type of restraint used and which extremities were restrained. • The condition of the patient while restrained, including cardiac and respiratory status an circulatory status of restrained extremities. Re-evaluations during transport must be documented. • Condition of the patient at the time of transfer of care to emergency department staff. • Any injury to patient or to EMS personnel. Patient Restraint 148