Do Not Resuscitate (DNR/POLST) 1. All patients with absent vital signs who do not have conclusive signs of death (refer to Prehospital Death Determination protocol) shall be treated with life-resuscitating measures unless EMS personnel are presented with a valid Do-Not-Resuscitate (DNR)/Physician Order for Life-Sustaining Treatment (POLST) Identification/Order. A. A valid DNR Identification is a form, wallet card, or medallion issued by the Southern Nevada Health District, Nevada Division of Public and Behavioral Health, or an identification issued by another state indicating a person’s desire and qualification to have life-resuscitating treatment withheld. B. A valid DNR Order is a written directive issued by a physician licensed in this state that life-resuscitating treatment is not to be administered to a qualified patient. The term also includes a valid Do-Not-Resuscitate order issued under the laws of another state. C. A valid POLST form signed by a physician that records the wishes of the patient and directs a healthcare provider regarding the provision of life-resuscitating treatment and life-sustaining treatment. Note: Verbal instructions from friends or family members DO NOT constitute a valid DNR/POLST. 2. In preparation for, or during a inter-facility transfer, a valid DNR Order/POLST in the qualified patient’s medical record shall be honored in accordance with this protocol. 3. If the EMS provider is presented with a DNR/POLST Order or Identification, he shall attempt to verify the validity of the Order or Identification by confirming the patient’s name, age, and condition of identification. 4. The DNR/POLST Order or Identification shall be determined INVALID if at any time the patient indicates that he/she wishes to receive life-resuscitating treatment. The EMS provider shall document the presence of the DNR/POLST Order or Identification, and how the patient indicated that he/she wanted the Order or Identification to be revoked. EMS personnel shall relay this information to any subsequent medical providers, including but not limited to, flight crews and staff at the receiving medical facility. 5. Once the DNR/POLST Order or Identification is determined to be valid and has not been revoked by the patient, the emergency care provider shall provide ONLY supportive care and withhold life-resuscitating treatment. 6. Faxed, copied or electronic versions of the DNR Identification/POLST are legal and valid. Supportive Care: Suction the airway Administer oxygen Position for comfort Splint Control bleeding Provide pain medication (ALS only) Provide emotional support Contact hospice, home health agency, attending physician or hospital as appropriate Be attentive of any actions the patient may take to revoke his authorization to withhold life-resuscitating treatment Do Not Resuscitate (DNR/POLST) 119