Quality Improvement Review When EMS or hospital personnel wish to have an incident involving patient care reviewed within the Clark County EMS system, the following steps shall be taken: 1. The person requesting a review of an incident should contact the designated representative of the agency/ hospital involved to initiate the process. If after gathering appropriate information and discussing the incident both parties are satisfied a problem does not exist, nothing further needs to be done. 2. If either party would like to pursue an investigation of the incident, the “Southern Nevada Health District EMS Incident Report” should be completed and a copy should be forwarded to the OEMSTS. 3. Upon receipt of the “Southern Nevada Health District EMS Incident Report” OEMSTS staff will review the case, gather information from the agencies/hospitals involved, and evaluate the need for further investigation. The agency/hospital may be asked to conduct an internal investigation, involving their medical director when appropriate, and provide a summary of their findings to the OEMSTS. 4. The personnel involved in the incident may be interviewed by the EMS medical director or his designee and their agency/hospital medical director to gather additional information. 5. Upon completion of the investigation, a report will be prepared and given to the agency/hospital representatives involved. Direct communication between the agency/hospital and complainant is recommended with a brief written summary of actions taken provided to the OEMSTS. 6. A quarterly aggregate summary of the incidents reviewed by the OEMSTS will be prepared and reported at the Quality Improvement Directors and Medical Advisory Board meetings. 7. All documentation and correspondence regarding this quality improvement activity; to monitor, review, evaluate, and report on the necessity, quality, and level of care provided a patient is confidential pursuant to NRS 49.117 – NRS 49.123, NRS 49.265, NRS 450B.810 and NRS 629.061. Quality Improvement Review 127