Pearls • For all scenes where patient needs exceed available EMS resources, initial assessment and treatment shall be in accordance with an approved triage methodology. • Correct life-threatening problems as identified. • If the ability to adequately ventilate a patient cannot be established, the patient must be transported to the nearest emergency department. • Never withhold oxygen from a patient in respiratory distress. • Contact with online medical control should be established by radio. Telephone contact may only be used if the call is routed via a recorded phone patch through FAO at 702-382-9007. Disposition • Patients sustaining traumatic injuries shall be transported in accordance with the Trauma Field Triage Criteria Protocol. • Patients sustaining burn injuries shall be transported in accordance with the Burns Protocol. • Pediatric patients (<18 y/o for transport purposes only) shall be transported in accordance with the Pediatric Destination Protocol. • Patients with evidence of a stroke shall be transported in accordance with the Stroke (CVA) Protocol. • Sexual assault victims <13 y/o shall be transported to Sunrise Hospital. • Sexual assault victims 13 y/o up to 18 y/o shall be transported to Sunrise Hospital or UMC. • Sexual assault victims 18 y/o and older shall be transported to UMC. • For sexual assault victims outside a 50-mile radius from the above facilities, the patient shall be transported to the nearest appropriate facility. • Stable patients shall be transported to the hospital of their choice, if the patient has no preference the patient should be transported to the closest facility. • For patients outside a 50 mile radius from protocol designated transport destinations, the licensee providing emergency medical care shall transport the patient to the nearest appropriate facility. Waiting Room Criteria Upon arrival in the emergency department, if transfer of care has not occurred in accordance with NRS 450B.790, any patient, excluding patients placed on a legal psychiatric hold, meeting ALL the following criteria may be placed in the hospital waiting room or other appropriate location: 1. Normal vital signs A. Heart rate 60 - 100 B. Respiratory rate 10 - 20 C. Systolic BP 100 - 180 D. Diastolic BP 60 - 110 E. Room air pulse oximetry >94% F. Alert and oriented x 4 2. Did not receive any parenteral medications during EMS transport except a single dose of analgesia and/or an antiemetic. 3. In the judgment of the Paramedic, does not require continuous cardiac monitoring. Note: Any ECG monitoring initiated by a transferring facility may not be discontinued by EMS personnel. 4. Can maintain a sitting position without adverse impact on their medical condition. 5. Is left with a verbal report to hospital personnel. Internal Disaster • If a hospital declares an internal disaster, that facility is to be bypassed for all patients except patients in cardiac arrest or in whom the ability to adequately ventilate has not been established. • Operational exceptions may be initiated in regard to transport to hospitals on internal disaster. General Adult Assessment Protocol 12