Termination of Resuscitation 1. Licensed EMS personnel are not obligated to continue resuscitation efforts that have been started by other persons at the scene if the patient meets the criteria listed in the Prehospital Death Determination protocol. This includes telephone CPR initiated by Emergency Medical Dispatchers. 2. Resuscitation should be terminated/ not initiated without telemetry contact if a valid DNR/POLST or physician written order is provided. 3. Resuscitation started in the field may be discontinued only by a telemetry physician order when the following conditions have been met: A. For medical arrest, contact closest hospital for telemetry physician order: The patient remains in persistent asystole or agonal rhythm after twenty (20) minutes of appropriate resuscitation, to include: 1) CPR 2) Effective ventilation with 100% oxygenation 3) Administration of appropriate ACLS medications, if available. 4) Confirm no organized rhythm or PEA<40, or a “No Shock Advised” on AED B. For traumatic arrest, contact TRAUMA CENTER based on catchment for telemetry physician order: 1) Open airway with basic life support measures 2) Provide CPR and effective ventilations with 100% oxygenation for two (2) minutes 3) Perform bilateral needle decompression if tension pneumothorax suspected 4) Confirm no organized rhythm or PEA <40, or a “No Shock Advised” on AED C. The patient develops, or is found to have one of the following conclusive signs of death at any point during the resuscitative effort: 1) Lividity 2) Rigor mortis 4. When resuscitation has been terminated in the field, all medical interventions shall be left in place. 5. If possible, do not leave a body unattended. Once a responsible person (i.e. Coroner’s investigator, police, security, or family member) is present at the scene, you may be excused. 6. NEVER transport/move a body without permission from the Coroner’s office, except for assessment or its protection. If the body is in the public view and cannot be isolated, screened, or blocked from view, and is creating an unsafe situation with citizens/family, the body can be covered with a clean, STERILE BURN SHEET obtained from the EMS vehicle. NOTES: In rural or wilderness situations, EMS providers must make every effort to contact medical control, but resuscitation may be terminated in the field without medical control when any of the following have occurred: A. There has been no return of pulse despite greater than 20 minutes of CPR and effective ventilation (consider extending in the case of hypothermia or drowning) B. Transport to an emergency department will take greater than 40 minutes (consider extending in the case of hypothermia or drowning) C. The EMS providers are exhausted and it is physically impossible to continue the resuscitation. Termination of Resuscitation (Revised and MAB approved 4/6/2022) 128