FOREWORD EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PROTOCOL MANUAL Optimal prehospital care results from a combination of careful patient assessment, essential prehospital emergency medical services, and appropriate medical consultation. The purpose of this manual is to provide guidance for ALL prehospital care providers and emergency department physicians within the Clark County EMS System. The GOAL of the manual is to STANDARDIZE prehospital patient care in Clark County. It is to be understood that these protocols are guidelines. Nothing contained in these protocols shall be construed to expand the scope of practice of any licensed Attendant beyond that which is identified in the Clark County Emergency Medical Services Regulations and these protocols (Appendix C). NOTHING contained within these protocols is meant to delay rapid patient transport to a receiving facility. Patient care should be rendered while en-route to a definitive treatment facility. The General Assessment protocols must be followed in the specific sequence noted. For all other treatment protocols, the algorithm defines the care every patient should receive, usually in the order described. To maintain the life of a specific patient, it may be necessary, in rare instances, for the physician providing on-line medical consultation, as part of the EMS consultation system, to direct a prehospital provider in rendering care that is not explicitly listed within these protocols, to include administering a patient’s own medications which are not part of the approved formulary. To proceed with such an order, both the telemetry physician and the provider must acknowledge and agree that the patient's condition and extraordinary care are not addressed elsewhere within these medical protocols, and that the order is in the best interest of patient care. Additionally, the provider must feel capable, based on the instructions given by the telemetry physician, of correctly performing the directed care. Whenever such care is provided, the telemetry physician and the provider must immediately notify the Office of EMS & Trauma System (OEMSTS) of the extraordinary care situation. In addition, the provider must immediately, upon completion of the call, make available the prehospital care record and documentation specifying the nature of the deviation and the ordering physician’s name to the OEMSTS. All such incidents will be entered into the Quality Improvement Review process. Occasionally a situation may arise in which a physician's order cannot be carried out, e.g., the provider feels the administration of an ordered medication would endanger the patient, a medication is not available, or a physician's order is outside of protocol. If this occurs, the provider must immediately notify the telemetry physician as to the reason the order cannot be carried out, and indicate on the prehospital care record what was ordered, the time, and the reason the order could not be carried out. In addition, the provider must immediately notify the OEMSTS, and upon completion of the call, make available the prehospital care record to the OEMSTS. All such incidents will be entered into the Quality Improvement Review process. 5