History Signs and Symptoms Differential • Blood loss-vaginal bleeding, • Restlessness, confusion • Hypovolemic shock ectopic, GI bleeding or AAA • Weakness, dizziness • Cardiogenic shock • Fluid loss-vomiting, diarrhea, • Weak rapid pulse • Septic shock fever • Pale, cool, clammy skin • Neurogenic shock • Infection • Delayed capillary refill • Anaphylactic shock • Cardiac tamponade • Hypotension • Ectopic pregnancy • Medications • Coffee-ground emesis • Dysrhythmias • Allergic reaction • Tarry stools • Pulmonary embolism • Pregnancy • Tension pneumothorax • History of poor oral intake • Medication effect or overdose • Vasovagal • Physiologic (pregnancy) Pearls • Recommended exam: Mental Status, Skin, Heart, Lungs, Abdomen, Back, Extremities, Neuro. • Hypotension can be defined as a systolic BP of <90. This is not always reliable and should be interpreted in context and patient’s typical BP, if known. Shock may present with a normal BP initially. • Hypovolemia or distributive shock should be addressed with a fluid bolus prior to the administration of push-dose pressors. • While there are no absolute contraindications to epinephrine, it should be used with caution in elderly patients, patients with known cardiovascular disease, or significant tachycardia or hypertension, and should be administered only when the patient’s signs and symptoms are severe. • Shock often is present with normal vital signs and may develop insidiously. Tachycardia may be the only manifestation. • Consider all possible causes of shock and treat per appropriate protocol. • An ETCO2 measurement of <25 mm Hg is indicative of shock Hypovolemic shock • Hemorrhage, trauma, GI bleeding, ruptured aortic aneurysm, or pregnancy related bleeding Cardiogenic shock • Heart failure, MI, cardiomyopathy, myocardial contusion, toxins Distributive shock • Sepsis (consider telemetry of code sepsis to receiving facility), anaphylaxis, neurogenic, toxins Obstructive shock • Pericardial tamponade, pulmonary embolus, tension pneumothorax For patients with known adrenal insufficiency, administer patient’s own Solu-Cortef (hydrocortisone) as prescribed. Causes of Adrenal Insufficiency: Addison’s Disease Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia Long term administration of steroids Others Shock (revised and MAB approved 6/1/2022) 58