History Signs and Symptoms Differential • Age, very old and young • AMS/coma • Fever • Exposure to increased • Hot, dry, or sweaty skin • Dehydration temperatures and/or humidity • Hypotension or shock • Medications • Past medical history/medications • Seizures • Hyperthyroidism • Time and duration of exposure • Nausea • DTs • Poor PO intake, extreme exertion • Heat cramps, heat exhaustion, heat stroke • Fatigue and/or muscle cramping • CNS lesions or tumors Pearls • Recommended exam: Mental Status, Skin, Heart, Lung, Abdomen, Extremities, Neuro. • Extremes of age are more prone to heat emergencies. • Cocaine, amphetamines, and salicylates may elevate body temperatures. • Sweating generally disappears as body temperatures rise over 104° F (40° C). • Intense shivering may occur as patient is cooled. • Active cooling includes application of cold packs, ice and water, fanning by air conditioning or fanning. • Cold saline is not to be administered for the treatment of hyperthermia unless directed by telemetry physician. • Cold water immersion is the preferred method of active cooling. Some providers such as certified athletic trainers and event medical personnel are prepared to initiate cold water immersion prior to EMS arrival. If cold water immersion was initiated due to documented hyperthermia, these patients should not be removed from cold water immersion prior to their rectal temperature reaching 102.2F (39C) or mental status returning to baseline unless it is required to manage other emergent issues such as airway. Heat Cramps • Consist of benign muscle cramping caused by dehydration and is not associated with an elevated temperature. Heat Exhaustion • Consists of dehydration, salt depletion, dizziness, fever, AMS, headache, cramping, N/V. Vital signs usually consist of tachycardia, hypotension and elevated temperature. Heat Stroke • Consists of dehydration, tachycardia, hypotension, temperature >104° F (40° C), and AMS. Active Cooling Measures • Cold packs • Ice and water • Fanning • Air Conditioning Heat-Related Illness (revised and MAB approved 4/3/2024) 36